Source URL: https://www.kuleuven.be/english/apply

You've chosen one of our programmes and are ready to apply
—
great news! To begin the application process at our university, you'll need to follow a few steps. The exact procedure depends on whether you obtained your secondary education and/or previous degree(s) within the Flemish Community (Belgium) or elsewhere.
How to apply as a non-Flemish degree holder
If you obtained your previous degree(s) outside of the Flemish Community, you must go through the application process before you can register for a KU Leuven programme.
Apply as non-Flemish degree holder
Flemish degree holder
Students who obtained a degree from an institution within the Flemish Community
can be granted access to their chosen programme and register directly, provided their qualification corresponds to the required study level. A secondary school diploma grants access to bachelor’s programmes, while a bachelor’s degree grants access to master’s programmes
Register as Flemish degree holder
Dutch VWO degree holder
If you hold a
Dutch VWO diploma
('voorbereidend wetenschappelijk onderwijs') and wish to register for a bachelor's programme at KU Leuven, you may follow the same
registration instructions
as students with a Flemish secondary school diploma.
However, if you are interested in the
Bachelor of European Studies
or a
Joint Bachelor’s degree with UC Louvain
(
Bachelor of Business Engineering
,
Bachelor of Laws
), you must
submit a formal application
for admission. Because these are joint programmes, all applications are assessed by the organising consortium.
All other types of Dutch diplomas require assessment, for which you
apply as a non-Flemish degree holder
.
Information for Dutch degree holders ( in Dutch)
Exceptions for Flemish degree holders
If you wish to register for the
Bachelor of European Studies
or a
Joint Bachelor’s degree with UC Louvain
(
Bachelor of Business Engineering
,
Bachelor of Laws
), you must
submit a formal application
for admission. Because these are joint programmes, all applications are assessed by the organising consortium.
Some Erasmus Mundus master’s programmes and advanced master’s programmes also require holders of a Flemish diploma to submit an application for admission. Always consult the
admission requirements
of the specific programme to determine whether you must apply for admission and how to submit your application file.
Additionally, not all Flemish diplomas can be verified through the
Flemish Learning and Experience Database
(LED). If your diploma was issued by an institution
listed here
, it cannot be verified via LED and therefore requires a separate verification procedure. In this case, you
must submit an application
for admission.
Contact
The KU Leuven Admissions Office functions as the contact, advice, expertise and administrative centre for KU Leuven and its Association with respect to the admission of students with a previous non-Flemish diploma.
Contact us
keyboard_arrow_up