Source URL: https://www.kuleuven.be/english/apply/application-instructions/instructions-degree

Application instructions
We strongly recommend you to
prepare your application
and to check all the requirements before starting the procedure.
Students that need more help or info can join one of our online info sessions on how to apply to KU Leuven.
Join our webinars
Step-by-step guide
This guide explains the different steps to apply to KU Leuven. We advise all students
to apply for your programme of interest well before the deadline
.
Step 1:
Create your account
Step 2:
Apply for your programme(s)
Step 3:
Upload the requested documents
Step 4:
Pay the application fee(s)
Step 5:
Submit your application
Step 6:
Follow up on your application assessment
Step 7:
The outcome of your application
Step 8:
If admitted, what's next?
1
Create an account
Create
an acount for the web application
Fill out your personal details. In case you hold a double nationality, and one of them is an EEA nationality, we advise you to apply under that nationality.
Fill out your curriculum
Any issues?
Login to the application
2
Apply for a programme
Check the application deadline
for the programme you want to apply for, to see if the programme still accepts applications.
Add a programme by clicking the '+' button in the Applications section on the main page of the web app
Choose the
type of programme
Select the upcoming academic year
Choose your specific programme by using the search tool
You can apply for multiple programmes.
3
Upload the requested documents
Upload the requested core and additional documents
The additional documents depend on the programme you are applying for
You can only upload documents as pdf or jpg
Requested documents
4
Pay the application fee
All applicants are required to pay the
EUR 90
application fee for each application that they submit.
Some exemptions apply
How to pay the application fee?
The payment of the application fee is required for the application to be considered complete. Note that a
refund of the application fee
is not possible for applications submitted after a strict deadline.
5
Submit your application
The submit button will only become active after you accept the disclaimer.
If a mandatory document is missing you will receive an error message. Please upload the missing documents before you submit your application again.
6
Follow up on your application assessment
After you have submitted your application, you will receive a confirmation e-mail. Your application will now be evaluated by our Admissions team and will go through a series of checks and evaluations. This is a timeconsuming process, where many internal and sometimes even external stakeholders are involved. For more information, check:
Overview of the application process
Processing time
Checking your application status
More information about the admissions process at KU Leuven
7
The outcome of your application
When the admissions office and programme staff have made their assessment of your application file, there are
three possible outcomes
:
Admitted
without condition or on the condition of graduating
Conditional admission
Rejection
You will be informed via e-mail about the outcome of your application.
8
Admitted, now what?
Holding an admission letter, does not mean that you are registered
and thus does not imply any kind of obligation (regarding payment, enrollment …). It just allows the administrative process to continue. You will be informed via e-mail when you can start up your registration as a student.
Prepare your stay at KU Leuven
You
cannot defer
your admission to the next academic year. If you cannot come, you will have to re-apply and your application will be re-evaluated by the faculty. You will need to check if the admission requirements have been revised and if applicable, upload proof that you meet these new requirements.
Need help?
Do you have questions or are you encountering any issues? Do not hesitate to reach out for help.
Contact us
keyboard_arrow_up