Source URL: https://www.kuleuven.be/english/education/student/register/Admissionrequirements

Enroll for an academic bachelor
Diploma requirements
Secondary education diploma within the Flemish Community (education qualification level 4) or a Dutch VWO diploma
Direct admission to a bachelor degree of your choice through the Registrar's office
Secondary education diploma from outside the Flemish Community?
Admission procedure
needs to be followed
Only an explicit admission to a study programme grants you permission to register
Diploma HBO, Propedeuse or a higher diploma (bachelor, master) obtained in the Netherlands?
Contact the
Admissions office
first to see if you need to follow
the admission procedure
.
Additional requirements
Proof that you passed the
specific entrance exam
:
Bachelors of medicine and dentistry
Proof that you participated in the
Positioning test
:
Bachelor in de bio-ingenieurswetenschappen
Bachelor in de de biochemie en biotechnologie
Bachelor in de biologie
Bachelor in de biowetenschappen
Bachelor in de biomedische wetenschappen
Bachelor in de chemie
Bachelor in de industriële wetenschappen
Bachelor of Engineering Technology
Bachelor in de farmaceutische wetenschappen
Bachelor in de fysica
Bachelor in de geowetenschappen
Bachelor in de ingenieurswetenschappen
Bachelor in de ingenieurswetenschappen: architectuur
Bachelor in de wiskunde
Learning account
Students who wish to enroll for a programme for which the
learning account
is applicable, are only accepted in case their learning account is higher than zero.
Enroll for an academic master, bridging or prepratory programme
In case you hold a higher degree (bachelor, master) from outside the Flemish Community, you first have to go through
the admission procedure
. Only an explicit admission to a study programme grants you permission to register.
Check the specific admission requirements in the
study program guide
. If it is stated there that you must receive an authorization, you must be able to present it upon definitive registration.
Other continuing education
Start a PhD
Lifelong learning at
KU Leuven Continue
Enroll for a credit contract
In essence, you need to meet the
diploma requirements of the programme
under which the course you wish to follow falls.
In case you do not meet the diploma requirements, the faculty may allow you to
register for the credit contract
after reviewing your request.
Enrollment limitations
Academic progress
KU leuven has certain regulations in place to monitor
your academic process
and to limit your study duration.
Deviations from the refusal of registration
Education and examiniation regulation
article 36
: The manager of Teaching and Learning Processes can decide that students can re-register by way of derogation from article 33, 34 or 35. A request under article 36 can never be filed simultaneous with an appeal under
article 104
.
More information about the procedure can be found under the specific articles in
the education and examiniation regulations
.
keyboard_arrow_up