Source URL: https://www.kuleuven.be/english/apply/application-instructions/apply-to-kuleuven

Prepare your application
Interested in studying at KU Leuven?
This brief guide will explain all major steps you need to take to prepare your application in case you do not have a Flemish degree that gives direct access to your desired programme. Make sure you check all steps: it will significantly improve your chances to get admitted.
We look forward to receiving your application!
Step-by-step guide to apply
This guide will help you prepare your application if you wish to pursue
a bachelor, master, advanced master or postgraduate studies
at KU Leuven. There are different procedures for
exchange students
,
PhD students
or
credit contracts
.
For degree seeking students:
Step 1:
Browse our programmes and get informed
Step 2:
Check the admission requirements
Step 3:
Check the application window
Step 4:
Check the tuition fees and scholarship options for your programme
Step 5:
Collect the requested documents
Step 6:
Start your application
Every programme at KU Leuven has its own entry requirements, application procedure and deadlines.
Please always consult the conditions specifically for your programme of interest.
1
Browse our programmes and get informed
First check whether KU Leuven offers any of the programmes you might be interested in.
Our programme pages will give you details about the programme courses, further career opportunities and the student profile they're looking for.
Even with all the relevant information at hand, choosing a university can be a daunting task. Our international team is here to help you with a wide range of online presentations. You might even be able to meet us in your own country at one of the study abroad information fairs we attend.
Check our list of degree programmes
Check our postgraduate certificates and continuing studies
Join one of our webinars
Meet us abroad
2
Check admission requirements
Every KU Leuven programme has their own admission requirements.
Make sure to read the detailed admission requirements of the specific study programmes available at the various KU Leuven campuses, to see if you are eligible.
Check the admission requirements
Search for your programme, click on 'admission requirements' and then select the admission requirements for the year that you would like to start your studies.
It is not possible to transfer into a programme at KU Leuven. Applicants interested in transferring must apply as a new student via the regular application procedure.
3
Check the application window for your programme
Our admissions process works on a rolling basis, but apply in time to start in the following academic year.
Some English programmes have a fixed deadline. You can
check the specific deadline of your programme
by using our
application window tool
.
For our Dutch programmes, there is a fixed deadline of February 1 for non-EEA applicants. For EEA applicants, there is no fixed deadline.
4
Check the tuition fees and scholarship options for your programme
You can check the tuition fee and scholarship options for your programme using our tuition fee calculator and scholarships database.
Tuition fee calculator
Scholarships database
5
Collect the requested documents
All programmes request the same core documents. The additional documents depend on the programme you wish to apply for and can be consulted in the
admission requirements
.
Application for a
Bachelor's programme
Application for a
Master's , Advanced Master's or postgraduate programme
6
Start your application
To start your application at KU Leuven, log in to the web app via your browser and complete your personal data, upload the required documents and pay the application fee.
Application instructions
In general, it is not possible to submit an application for a diploma contract with the intention to start in the second semester. All students start the academic year in September. The only exception is the Preparatory programme for the Master of Rehabilitation Sciences and Physiotherapy, which always starts in February. All of our programmes are taught full time and during the day. We do not offer evening or weekend classes.
Check out the academic calendar
Exchange students
Exchange students remain enrolled at their home university while spending a few months to a full academic year at KU Leuven, free of charge. They take part in one of the European Commission’s educational programmes, such as Erasmus+. Others are visiting Leuven in the framework of an exchange agreement at faculty level between their home university and KU Leuven.
Apply as an exchange student
Credit contract
Some students just want to register for one or more course units, with the intention of obtaining a credit certificate instead of a full degree.
In their education regulations, the faculties determine what possible course credits can or cannot qualify for a credit contract.
Apply for a credit contract
PhD students
You can
start a PhD at KU Leuven
either by applying for a vacant position or by finding a supervisor and writing your own research proposal.
Either way requires you to get a formal approval and invitation by your future supervisor.
Apply as a PhD student
Need help?
Do you have questions or are you encountering any issues? Do not hesitate to reach out for help.
Contact us
keyboard_arrow_up